# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns
Performing analysis on Kickstarter data to uncover trends and make recommendations accordingly.

From the analysis of the Kickstarter Campaigns data set we observe that there are over 4,000 campaigns in 9 different categories. We limit our analysis with 'plays in the US' and 'musicals in GB' since Louise is interested to acquire more information on these subcategories. Plays and musicals are both subcategories of theater. 

In the US there are 525 successful and 349 failed theater Kickstarters. When we compare outcomes based on launch date for theater we notice that May is the most successful date to launch a campaign, while December seems to be the worst time. In December failed campaigns (e.g. 35) are almost as much as the successful (e.g. 37) ones. In May, successful theater kickstarters (e.g. 111) more than twice as much as the failed ones (e.g. 52). June and July also are fairly good times to start a theater campaign.

The data also shows that there are total 604 Kickstarter Campaigns in GB and the theater is most successful category. There are 359 Kickstarter campaigns for theater of which 314 are plays. The number of successful plays is 238 making the plays by far te most successful subcategory. There are only 26 musicals of which 10 of them were successful while 11 were not. From the Box and Whisker plot of the musical we can see tha the mean goal is 4,000 while the mean pledged is 1,000 pound sterling. Half of the campaign goals (the median) is less than 2,000 pound sterling whichis above the upper quartile for amounts pledged. 

Furthermore, when we look at the descriptive statistics we notice that failed Kickstarter campaigns have considerably higher goals than the successful ones. The average goal for failed successful campaigns is twice as much as the successful campaigns. Also, we notice that the mean and the median pledged amounts for successful campaigns are much higher compared to failed campaigns. 

Based on our analyses, we see that theater is the most successful category and plays is the most successful subcategory. So, if Louise wants to succeed she should launch plays.She should also eliminate excessively large funding goals. These outliers cause data to be widely dispersed. The data shows that the best times to launch a play is around May, June and July. She should avoid December to launch a campaign. Furthermore, for her campaign in GB, it might be a better idea to choose plays instead of musicals, since plays are clearly more successful. However, if she wants to stick with musicals, then she should keep her goal for the campaign under 4,000 sterling pounds.
